---
title: "hello"
date: 2023-01-23
---

Over a month since my last post. Oopsie daisy.

Lately I've been spending more time on work and learning for work than I have been with playing video games. So thats a positive for right now.
I'm running through a course Pluralsight for the Tableau Desktop Specialist certification a second time right now.
I've scheduled to take this certification next week Monday. So that'll be cool, I'm not terribly worried about failing it.

I've read more of my SQL Fundametals book by Itzik Ben-Gan too which is nice. There are a couple nice tidbits of information I wasn't privy too before reading.
Can't remember them offhand, but I'm gonna skim through to see if I can remember what they were...
- Knowing that everything is set based is neat. Had heard this through my boss at work too.
- 2 or 3 value predicates
- The order of table operations is super good to know. I try to remember it as 'From where group, having select order', because it almost sounds like a sentence.
- Join complexity, i.e. cross join is a 1 step process, inner join is 2 steps, outer joins are 3 steps. Nice to know for efficiency.
- Window functions kick ass
- Had never used and was not familiar with pivoting, grouping sets, cube, and rollup, but they seem neat.

Those are my new takeaways thus far, being halfway through the book.

After I obtain the Tableau Desktop Specialist cert, I plan on going through anything Pluralsight has to offer regarding SQL, SQL Server, and Azure Data stuff.
I saw on the internet that people really recommend their stuff.
Following anything I can absorb through them (and certs I can obtain with confidence), I'll go and absorb what Brent Ozar has to offer.

Ich kann nicht warten! Tschuess!

P.S. Day 11 part 2 for the 2022 advent of code challenge is rough. I'm not particularly familiar with whatever concepts are needed to be able to solve that.
So brainstorm I shall.